---
title: Using with VSR
sidebar:
  label: Using with VSR
  order: 3
---

import { Code } from '@astrojs/starlight/components'

export const customProtocolJsonExample = JSON.stringify(
  {
    registries: {
      vsr: 'http://localhost:1337',
    },
  },
  null,
  2,
)
export const packageJsonExample = JSON.stringify(
  {
    name: 'my-project',
    version: '1.0.0',
    dependencies: {
      foo: 'vsr:foo@^1.0.0',
    },
  },
  null,
  2,
)
export const defaultRegistryJsonExample = JSON.stringify(
  {
    registry: 'http://localhost:1337',
  },
  null,
  2,
)

## Setting up your VSR instance

It's possible to configure the vlt client to install packages from a
vsr instance.

There are two possible ways to configure a vsr instance. For direct
dependencies we recommend configuring private registries using a
custom registry protocol that allows for fine grained and explicit
control of registry sources per package. The other possible method is
to configure your vsr instance as the default registry.

This guide will show you how to set up a VSR instance using both
methods. You'll need to choose which method serves your specific
workflow best and depending on the choice you may only setup that
specific method and ignore the other one.

### Getting started with VSR

For this example we're going to use a local-running vsr instance.
Here's how to start one:

<Code code="$ npx -y vltpkg/vsr" title="Terminal" lang="bash" />

You can consult the
[VSR Quickstart](https://github.com/vltpkg/vsr?tab=readme-ov-file#quick-starts)
for more information on how to get started.

Please note, in the rest of this guide you may need to replace
`http://localhost:1337` with the correct url in case you decide to use
your VSR instance from an environment other than local-run.

Log in to your VSR instance. In case you already have a custom user
token configured than you should just use that. If you're just getting
started and want to test using the default `admin` profile you may
just use the default token: `xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx`.

<Code
  code="$ vlt token --registry=http://localhost:1337 add"
  title="Terminal"
  lang="bash"
/>

The `token` subcommand is going to open a prompt allowing you to input
the user token.

Please note that the default admin token is not suitable for regular
usage, do not use it outside of just a simple experimental test setup.

### Set up a VSR instance using a custom registry protocol

Edit your config file to set the local VSR instance as a valid custom
registry protocol:

<Code code={customProtocolJsonExample} title="vlt.json" lang="json" />

It's now possible to install specific packages from your VSR instance
using `vsr:` as a package alias. In the following example we're going
to install a package named `foo` that was published to our custom VSR
instance:

<Code
  code="$ vlt install foo@vsr:foo@latest"
  title="Terminal"
  lang="bash"
/>

Here is how the resulting `package.json` may look like:

<Code code={packageJsonExample} title="package.json" lang="json" />

### Set up a VSR instance as the default registry

Set the local VSR instance as the default registry:

<Code
  code="$ vlt config set registry=http://localhost:1337"
  title="Terminal"
  lang="bash"
/>

Alternatively, you can also edit your config file:

<Code
  code={defaultRegistryJsonExample}
  title="vlt.json"
  lang="json"
/>

Using the default registry setup, each `vlt install <pkg>` will fetch
assets from your VSR instance.
